::::: \"container\"
# Identify When Price Wants to Breakout from Support/Resistance on Quotex

::: {."alert alert-success"=""}
**Success!** You have successfully registered for a Quotex trading
account.
:::

::: {."alert alert-danger"=""}
**Error!** There was an error registering your Quotex trading account.
Please try again.
:::

## How do you know when the price is about to break through the support or resistance?

Identifying support/resistance levels is one of the most important
skills a trader must develop. This skill allows you to understand how
the price behaves when it approaches to support or resistance. As such,
it becomes easier to know the best places to enter or exit an open
position.

[![](https://static.quotex.io/files/4_en/300_250.jpg)](https://traff.sbs/brokerqxlid)

In some instances, the price will hit the support or resistance and then
reverse. In other instances, it will break through the support or
resistance levels. This guide shows you how to identify when the price
wants to break the support or resistance. It also shows you what to do
in such a scenario.

### How to know if price momentum is strong enough to break through support/resistance

-   Look for a strong trend. If the trend is strong, the price is more
    likely to break through the support or resistance.
-   Look for a news or economic event. A news or economic event can
    cause the price to move in a certain direction, which can lead to a
    breakout.
-   Look for a price consolidation. A price consolidation is when the
    price falls within a narrow range. As the price approaches the
    support or resistance, it has gained enough momentum to
    breakthrough.

### Avoiding false breakouts

False breakouts occur when the price breaks out of the
support/resistance level and almost immediately falls back within the
range before the trend reverses. False breakouts are where most traders
incur losses.

One way to avoid false breakouts is to look at how the price behaves
when it hits a strong support/resistance. That is, what trend develops?

## What action should you take once the price breaks the support/resistance on Quotex?

If the price breaks through a weak support/resistance you can expect the
trend to continue in the same direction. In the case of a strong
support/resistance consider how the price behaves when it touches this
level.

If you look at our snapshot above, the price usually develops a
downtrend. If the breakout occurs, wait until the markets behave like
they did when prices hit the support/resistance. That's the time to
enter the trade based on the developing trend.

### Enter trades based on price trends to protect against false breakouts

As I mentioned, knowing how price behaves when it touches a
support/resistance allows you to have an idea about how to trade when it
does this again.

So reading your chart is important. I usually recommend you trade using
a larger time frame chart compared to your trading sessions. For
example, If you are trading 5-minute candles, you should read the 30
minute or 3-hour chart.

There are instances where the price continuously breaks through the
support/resistance levels. You can use additional tools and indicators
to help you determine when it's best to enter your trades.

One useful tool is the Quotex Bollinger Bands indicator. There are many
ways to use this indicator. For example, when price approaches the
support/resistance zone before starting to fall and breaking the lower
band, this is a signal to go short.

Trading using support/resistance is a skill that requires a lot of
patience and practice. Your objective should be choosing the appropriate
trade entry point once the price breaks the support/resistance.

If you want to apply these skills, open an
\[Quotex\](http://bit.ly/quotexvip) practice account today and start
trading. It's the only way you'll learn how to identify
support/resistance levels as well as determine when prices are about to
break them.

[Open a Quotex Account
Today](\%22https://traff.sbs/brokerqxlid\%22){."call-to-action"}
:::::

\`\`\`

